At Romans 8 and verse 35, the Apostle Paul asked,
Who will separate us from the love of the Christ?
Will tribulation or distress or persecution or hunger or nakedness or danger or sword?
Notice how Paul answered that question in verse 37.
On the contrary, in all these things, we are coming off completely victorious through the one who loved us.
That's a very fitting scripture for this update.
Many of the things Paul mentioned, we've experienced in the past year.
There have been many challenges.
Yet through the help we receive from Jehovah, we are coming off victorious.
Of course, we're all contending with the pandemic.
Jehovah's organization has been complying with guidance from public health officials worldwide.
We've worked hard as an organization to show deep respect for the sanctity of life.
And we've watched Jehovah bless these efforts as our meetings and ministry have thrived.
However, we are not immune to the effects of the virus.
As of May 15, we have now lost over 17,000 of our dear brothers and sisters to COVID-19.
No doubt most of us have lost someone we love.
How comforting to know that our loved ones are safe in Jehovah's memory.
Even death has not separated them from Jehovah.
There have been many recent news reports about the pandemic in India and Brazil.
Many of you have been asking how our brothers there are doing.
In the past month, in India, there have been 10 times as many new cases and deaths among the brothers than there were in the previous month.
The disaster relief committees are actively monitoring the needs of our brothers and, as needed, helping them locate hospitals that have available beds.
In Brazil, the number of cases and the number of deaths continue to be high.
Sadly, over 400 of our brothers in Brazil have died from the virus in just the past month.
The responsible brothers are working hard to help our brothers in these lands.
Please keep all of our brothers in India and Brazil in your prayers.
In various parts of the world, the virus is resurging.
In some cases because of new variants. Clearly, this pandemic is not over.
Please continue to be careful.
You may find it helpful to review the 2020 governing body update number 9,
which explains how COVID-19 spreads and what we can do to protect ourselves.
What is our view on vaccination?
Jehovah's Witnesses are not against vaccination.
We view it as a personal decision for each Christian to make.
Already, in cooperation with public health officials, many in our Bethel families have chosen to be vaccinated.
In 2020, we also faced an unprecedented number of natural disasters.
Now, can you imagine? In the 2020 service year, we had 204 disasters.
That's more than double the number of disasters that we had in 2018.
Of course, we've had to cope with many disasters during the pandemic.
Let me remind you of some of them.
Central America was struck by Hurricane Edda.
St. Vincent has had volcanic eruptions.
Croatia was shaken by earthquakes.
Lebanon was devastated by an explosion.
Nigeria suffered widespread flooding.
Mozambique was hit by cyclone Eloise.
The Philippines was pummeled by super typhoon Goni.
Australia had destructive bushfires.
These are just a few of the disasters we have faced during the pandemic.
This is exactly what Paul was talking about when he mentioned tribulation, distress, hunger, nakedness, danger, or sword.
Would any of these things be able to separate us from God's love?
What have we seen?
Let's hear some expressions from our brothers in the United States.
When you have a disaster on top of a disaster, COVID-19 on top of Hurricane Sally, it's a challenge to get through and navigate both.
Being homebound for so many months, everybody was already feeling a little bit on edge.
Then you had the stress of the flood on top of it.
The speed of the brothers and sisters responding was probably from the most heartwarming.
We called them on a Wednesday to start some of their work on Friday.
And by Friday, they were organized and ready to go.
I think it's one of those heartwarming privileges I've ever had to see how that Jehovah's organization can take care of needs for us.
The world around us is falling apart.
People we think I can handle this, I can handle this.
You know, I can do this, and you can't go it on your own.
You need the friends, you need them.
When the call goes out, Jehovah's people come running.
It's an amazing thing to see.
There's no way that Jehovah's love can be blocked.
If you're sheltered in place or wherever you are, Jehovah's love gets through.
We've been through a difficult situation, but our confidence is solid.
That he'll continue to help us. He got us through this problem. He'll get us through the next.
One of the reasons why our brothers are coming off victorious is because of all of you.
You've been there to help.
Some of you have risked your own safety to provide relief.
Although most of us don't have the circumstances to do that, we've made donations.
As a result, we've been able to provide our brothers with food, water, building materials, and medicine, all because of your generosity and goodness.
Thank you for what you've done to help our brothers who face these disasters.
That's not the only thing that Paul talked about in Romans 8 and verse 35.
He also mentioned persecution.
We certainly have had to face that. It hasn't gone away during the pandemic.
As of May 2021, more than 155 brothers and sisters are in prison for their faith.
Even so, there have been positive developments.
In recent months, we were so encouraged to learn that 32 of our brothers in Eritrea have been set free,
including Paulus, Isaac, and Nguede who were in prison for 26 years.
We continue to pray for the 20 brothers and sisters who are still in prison.
On May 8, we were delighted to learn that the Turkmenistan government released from prison all 16 of our brothers who were in prison for conscientious objection to military service.
We thank Jehovah for these positive developments.
When I went to Russia for the Supreme Court hearings in 2017, it was a very sobering moment when we heard the judge announce that our legal entities were banned.
We knew Jehovah would look after our brothers, but there were so many unknowns. How would our brothers be affected?
Some, of course, have been arrested, like Brother Dennis Christensen.
He's been in prison for four years as of May 25, 2021.
Although Dennis has qualified for parole for over a year, the authorities have hardened their hearts.
They have not let him go. In spite of that, Dennis and his wife Arena are in good spirits.
And we continue to remember our 10 brothers who are in penal colonies in Russia and the 48 who are in pretrial detention as of May 14, 2021.
Now that four years have passed since the ban, what do we say?
Our brothers have not coward. They have not backed down. They continue to serve Jehovah faithfully. As you watch this next video, see who the authorities are attacking now.
In 2013, our son Igor became ill and he got worse and worse. Then in 2014, our son died.
It was such a tragedy for us and words cannot describe it. He was our only son and was deeply loved.
Then, two years later, my mother died and two years after that, my sister died, getting through all of that was beyond human strength.
We had just started to feel a little better. When on March 26, 2019, our men in masks burst into our home.
It was such a shock we went now. We couldn't say anything. We were paralyzed.
On May 22, 2019, early in the morning at 5.45, the doorbell rang.
I looked through the people and saw people who showed me their identification.
Then those people came into my apartment, made a search and took me to the center for fighting extremism.
It turned it up with my being accused of participating in extremist activity.
Then, in 2020, the court hearings began for my case.
For example, for my criminal case, they collected 17 volumes of evidence against me and they questioned over 200 witnesses.
Then, the court hearings started. First of all, there were Valentinas hearings, then mine.
Of course, none of that is exactly pleasant, but it somehow made us stronger and Jehovah supported us.
We even went to the court feeling joyful. We felt that Jehovah was helping us, supporting us, strengthening us and encouraging us.
We are so grateful to Him.
Our fellow worshippers constantly called on us from all parts of the town.
They always supported us, always called us and said strengthening things and quotes from the Bible.
I understood that it would end up with my being a defendant.
It was as though inside I was already prepared for that and you know I didn't feel any kind of panic.
I just wanted to get through it in a dignified manner and didn't want to let anyone down.
And under no circumstances, betrayal got Jehovah.
I want to say that each day for me is a blessing from Jehovah.
I pray and ask for peace and calmness in both my heart and my home.
And right now, the blessings far outweigh all negative experiences.
This I value very highly. The sentence might even involve time and prison, or it might be a suspended sentence.
But regardless of the outcome, we need to remain faithful to God and to stay on the way of truth to the end.
No matter what happens, whether I remain free or they put me somewhere behind prison walls,
there is absolutely nothing that can separate us from God's love.
No prison walls can shut out God's love. It can penetrate everywhere to all depths.
It was the strength that we received from God that helped us to survive the death of our son
and many other misfortunes. So we will get through this too, but definitely will.
I have no doubt about it.
How shameful that the authorities are attacking our elderly brothers and sisters.
And yet, isn't it amazing that despite their own trials, these dear older ones are not yielding to fear?
They say that the persecution has only made them stronger in the faith.
You dear brothers and sisters in Russia have done so well.
You are an inspiration to all of us. We truly love you.
Doesn't all of this convince us of what Paul said in Romans 8 and verse 37?
In all these things, we are coming off completely victorious through the one who loved us.
That's what we've seen with our brothers and sisters facing the pandemic, natural disasters and persecution.
What conviction does this lead us to?
Paul continues in verses 38 and 39.
For I am convinced that neither death nor life nor angels nor governments nor things now here nor things to come,
nor powers nor height nor depth nor any other creation will be able to separate us from God's love that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Brothers and sisters, we are convinced that you too will continue to come off completely victorious no matter what trials you face.
Why? Because nothing can separate us from Jehovah's love.
Please know that we love you all very much.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.